WO YEARS AGO,  Microsoft  president Brad Smith told a US 
congressional  hearing  that tech companies like his own had not been 
sufficiently paying media companies for the news content that helps fuel 
search engines l ike Bing and Google.   
“What we’re talking about here is far bigger than us,”  he said , testifying 
alongside news executives.  “Let’s hope that, if a ce ntury from now 
people are not using iPhones or laptops or anything that we have today, 
journalism itself is still alive and well. Because our democracy depends 
on it.” Smith said tech companies should do more and that Microsoft 
was committed to continuing "healthy revenue -sharing" with news 
publishers, including licensing articles for  Microsoft news apps . 
Yet, Microsoft this week began testing a  new chatbot interface for 
Bing that can sometimes provide a way to sidestep news websites’ 
paywalls, providing glossy conversational answers that draw on media 
content. As  Google and others also prepare chatbots , their potential to 
sap traffic from media companies could add a new twist to their conflicts 
with tech platforms over how content appears on search engines and 
social feeds.  
When WIRED asked the Bing chatbot about the  best dog 
beds  according to  The New York Times  product review site Wirecutter, 
which is behind a metered paywall, it quickly reeled off th e publication’s 
top three picks, with brief descriptions for each. “This bed is cozy, 
durable, easy to wash, and comes in various sizes and colors,” it said of 
one. 
Citations at the end of the bot’s response credited Wirecutter’s reviews 
but also a series of websites that appeared to use Wirecutter’s name to 
attract searches and cash in on affiliate links.  The Times  declined to 
comment.  
Bing’s bot, based on technology behind  OpenAI’s chatbot sensation 
ChatGP T,  also neatly summarized a  Wall Street Journal  column  on, 
well, ChatGPT, even though the newspaper's content is generally 
behind  a paywall. (The tool did not appear to directly plagiarize any of 